---
papersize: a4
title: Beyond functional autograding of ARM assembly language programs
author:
  - |
    [Jack O'Sullivan](mailto:osullj19@tcd.ie) (#17331147)
subtitle: Research Project Proposal
geometry: margin=3cm
---

# Purpose of project

The goal of _Beyond functional autograding of ARM assembly language programs_ is
to develop a system to aid grading of ARM assembly language programming
assignments. Systems designed to grade programming assignments in an automated
fashion already exist, however the majority of these perform only "functional"
or "black box" autograding.

This is a relatively straightforward technique where compiled programs are
executed with a set of inputs and the output is compared to a pre-determined
known-good output. Test cases (inputs and their corresponding correct outputs)
might written by hand be or in some cases be generated by a reference solution
to the problem.

While this type of autograding is certainly useful, it can only test the
correctness of a program - not its structure or efficiency. In this project, the
researcher seeks to develop a system which can measure such properties.

Once developed to a state where it can produce useful metrics, it is desirable
that the system be applied to real-world programs to determine its
effectiveness.

# Measurement methodology

With the above in mind, the ideal scenario for measurement is a website
where participants can submit their code and receive feedback from the
automated system. Following this, they could complete a short survey. Along
with the metrics produced by the system, this would be very useful in
determining how successful the project was.

The online system would be (or another platform similar to)
[Submitty](https://submitty.org), an open source project designed for online
assignment submission that includes support for customisable automated grading.
Submitted code would be the students' source code for one or more ARM assembly
language programs which solve a particular problem.

The survey would be externally completable via Google Forms and feature a number
of questions using the Likert scale.

\newpage
# Participants

Participants would be students of the first year computer science module
CSU11022 (_Introduction to Computing II_). This module builds upon the prior
_Introduction to Computing I_ and teaches students more advanced ARM assembly
programming concepts. One or more of the problems given to students for
assignments and exercises would be used as the program participants would submit
to the system for testing. This is ideal since CSU11021/2 are exactly the type
of application for an automated system such as the one this project hopes to
achieve. Participants would also not need to solve a new problem but could just
submit their previously completed code.

Any student of CSU11022 would be permitted to take part and the lecturer would
send an email to students notifying them of the opportunity to participate.

# Ethical considerations

Code submitted for evaluation is the same as code submitted for assignments in
CSU11022. However, the assignments used would have already been completely
submitted and graded in the module in order to remove the possibility for
the project's system to influence grading of CSU11022.

Any submissions would also be completely anonymised. Students would submit their
programs without any identifying information (name, student number etc.) and
comments in source code would be removed. Performance results would only be
visible to the the researcher (not the lecturer). The researcher would not be
able to associate a students' submissions with the original student.

Finally, student participation in both the online submission for automated
grading and the survey would be entirely voluntary.
